My name is Karl Hsu.
I am a WebObjects engineer.
And just before we begin,
I'd like to tell you that
I don't have any jokes.
I'm not funny.
I don't sing.
I really can't play the guitar.
But I am Canadian.
So welcome to session 611.
This is Deploying
WebObjects Applications.
And this is really an introduction to
deploying a WebObjects application.
We'll give a little overview of
how the deployment architecture
of WebObjects is structured.
We'll talk about things that you
can configure in your deployment.
We'll talk about some
system monitoring tools.
We'll go over a typical deployment,
and then we'll do Q&A.
So this is the typical deployment
architecture for WebObjects.
We start with a browser,
which could be a web
browser or a Java client or
something along those lines,
and it makes a TCP request
to an HTTP server,
a web server.
That's known as the presentation layer.
The web server then forwards
the request to your application.
Your application is the
heart of WebObjects.
It's your WebObjects application.
It's what bends dynamic web
pages back to the client.
It's where all your logic is.
That's your application layer.
The application is dynamic,
and it serves data,
does things with data,
so usually it talks to
a database using UF.
That is the database layer.
One thing to remember
is that when you deploy,
resources are split between the web
server and the application itself.
So why do we do this?
The first thing is that we want to
make public resources available easily.
Things like images, sounds,
client-side Java jars,
that sort of thing.
And you want to make those available
because it's faster to serve them
through the web server than it is
to go through the web server to
your app and have your app serve it.
Your app should only be spending
time on what it does best:
your business logic.
The web server should be
doing what it does best,
which is serving basically
static objects out.
So all the other things
that your app has,
the executable itself,
server-side Java files,
which for WebObjects 5 is everything,
pretty much, components, the EOMODO file,
all that stuff, should be private.
It shouldn't be accessible
directly to a client.
And you want to do this
for a number of things.
Again, security is probably
the most obvious one.
So that if somebody doesn't accidentally
get a hold of your EO model or
something along those lines,
if the web server is badly configured.
And this is known as a split install
because you take the resources,
you divide them in the
public and private,
and you install them in
two different places.
So let's talk about
deployment configurations.
What are the supported deployment
platforms for WebObjects?
Mac OS X Server, the new one,
Windows 2000, Solaris 2.8.
Mac OS X Server comes
with a Java Runtime 1.3.
Windows 2000 and Solaris 2.8,
we require that a JRE of 1.3
or higher already be installed.
What sort of hardware should you run on?
What kind of processor?
How fast?
How many?
How much memory?
How much disk space?
Whether you have more than one machine?
Where is the server located?
Network?
How fast is it?
How secure is it?
What about the physical
security of your machines?
What about the temperature of
the room the machines are in?
UPSs, that's particularly important
if you're in California.
Software.
It's important to know
what kind of account your
applications will be running on.
You could run them always as root.
This may not be a good idea to have
unrestricted access to your file
system and the rest of everything.
What about application logging?
You're deploying an application.
You need to be able to figure out
what's wrong if something breaks.
What about access control?
Who has access to the application?
Who's allowed to configure things?
These are all things that you
really want to think about.
So we're going to talk
about what can we control,
the areas that we're
going to talk about today.
And this is deployment.
So deployment-dependent,
and typically the things that
you can tweak or control,
are the WebObjects adapter,
the application itself, and the database.
Well,
tweaking the database is really something
that's an entire profession unto itself,
so we're really not going
to go into that here.
We're going to talk about the
WebObjects adapter and the application.
So what is the WebObjects adapter?
We saw the deployment
architecture from before,
and the WebObjects adapter is
what forwards the request the
web server to your application.
What does it do for you?
Why do you want to do this rather
than just having a client connect
directly to your application?
It gives you better performance.
It lets you load balance
between multiple instances,
and it provides other things
such as pooled connections,
etc.
It validates client requests.
A nice thing about the adapters
is that it can do some things with
cookies to help you validate sessions.
It can also validate that it's a
well-formed request so that your
application doesn't have to deal
with badly formed requests that
may be designed specifically to
crash the app or even accidentally.
And it's more secure.
Not giving people direct access to
your applications makes things a little
bit nicer for system administrators.
It also separates things out
so that the only contact that
people have with the outside world
happens to be your web server.
So there are two types
of WebObjects adapters.
There's the CGI adapter,
Common Gateway Interface,
and the API adapters,
which are plug-in modules.
Why would you want to
use one or the other?
CGI works anywhere,
all of our supported platforms,
probably on some that aren't.
But it's slow.
Every time a client makes a request,
you have to fork a new process.
And it doesn't support load
balancing on some platforms,
Windows in particular.
The API adapters are plugins.
We have plugins for Apache, NSAPI,
which is for Netscape's iPlanet,
and ISAPI, which is for Microsoft's
Internet Information Server.
They're fast,
but they can only be used with
those specific web servers and
only on specific platforms.
Their major advantage is that all of
the API modules support load balancing,
and we'll talk about load
balancing in just a second.
All of the WebObjects
adapters are written in C.
We provide the source code
so that you can modify them,
you can adapt them, you can tweak them.
If you make them better,
tell us and hopefully we'll
incorporate the changes.
Which adapters do we support?
If you can see,
on all three of our supported platforms,
CGI works with pretty much everything.
On OS X, we support Apache.
We do not support NSAPI.
On Solaris, we support Apache and NSAPI.
On Windows 2000,
we support NSAPI and ISAPI.
So,
just in case you all are taking notes,
we do not support NSAPI on OS X.
So let's go back to an earlier slide.
What's load balancing?
I talked about it.
This is really a performance thing.
This is a big performance win
for you and your applications.
What it does is it distributes
client requests between multiple
instances of your application.
Why would you want to do this?
Because even though you're slowing
down a little bit the actual transit
time because you have to pass the
request through an intermediary,
your app is doing all the work.
Your app is doing all of your logic.
It's dealing with the EOs.
It may be doing enormous amounts
of work against the database.
And so even though the cost of passing
requests to the application and back
from the application is negligible.
So the idea is to have more applications.
You can have multiple machines with
multiple applications running on them.
They do all the work and all the adapter
does is pass requests between them.
Because of the way that
WebObjects deals with sessions,
we only load balance requests
that don't have a session.
Once you have a session,
you're typically assigned to a particular
instance running on a particular machine,
and you'll stay there
until the session is gone.
There are three types of load balancing.
There's random, and in random,
the adapter basically for a new request
just picks an arbitrary instance.
Round robin, where the adapter will pick
the instances in sequence.
If you had three instances,
it would go one, two, three, one, two,
three, are you feeling sleepy yet?
LoadAverage tries to pick the instance
that has the least number of sessions.
It's a slightly tweaked heuristic,
but essentially that's
what it boils down to.
Let's take a look at
the adapter overview.
What happens specifically?
The browser makes a request.
The web server will pass it
to the WebObjects adapter,
and the WebObjects adapter will
look at the status request line,
the URL that the browser requested.
And in this case we see, look,
it's requesting the
application KillerApp.
and if you can see killerapp.wola/2.
The 2 indicates that we're
looking at instance 2.
We probably have an
existing session on that.
So the adapter has a sort of a map,
and it says KillerApp2 is
located on the host qualia,
and it's running on TCP/IP port 4002.
So, it's found that.
It then forwards the
request to your application.
The application will process the request,
return the response to the adapter,
the adapter hands it back
up to the web server,
the web server hands
it off to your client,
and we're off.
The adapter site configuration.
So, I alluded to a mapping.
That's the adapter site configuration.
And what it is,
is it maps an application number, name,
and an instance ID to the application
server and the TCP/IP port that that
instance happens to be running on.
So, I'll just give you the
examples from before.
KiloRap1 running on the
host Qualia port 4001.
The site configuration also has
some additional information.
What kind of load balancing you should
use for this particular application.
The number of persistent connections
to make to that application,
TCP/IP socket options,
that sort of thing.
There are three ways that the adapter
gets this configuration information.
The first way is from a flat file.
Basically,
it'll just read a file off of the disk.
The second way is a host list.
It'll get dynamic data about application
instances from a series of hosts,
known hosts that you pass it.
And multicast,
which is sort of a broadcast mechanism
for discovering what hosts are available.
We'll go through these one
by one in just a second.
The configurations for these
are updated every 10 seconds.
So every 10 seconds,
the adapter will check to make sure that
instances haven't left or new instances
haven't been added or new applications,
whatever.
So let's look at flat file.
Flat file is in an XML format,
and the DTD that defines
it is in the documentation.
It's also, I believe,
in the adapter source
code that we provide.
So I'll give an example,
and it's pretty simple.
I mean,
we have an application named KillerApp.
It's being scheduled using RoundRobin,
and it has one instance with an
ID of 1 running on Qualia port 4001.
Host List Configuration.
So, again,
this requests dynamic configuration
information from a list of hosts.
The information is normally
supplied by something called
the WebObjects Task Daemon,
or WOTASTI for short.
This Wotasty daemon runs on each
application server or a host.
The information that Wotasty supplies to
the adapter upon request is in the same
XML format that the flat file file uses.
And the reason you want to do this
is because it allows for really
easy dynamic addition of application
instances on a set of known hosts.
This is also the default
mechanism that the adapters use.
The adapters are pointed at
the local host by default.
So you'll see 1085 come up probably.
1085 is the port that Wotasty
is running on by default.
And that's where the adapter
requests information.
That's the port that the Wotacity
will return information on.
So we'll take a quick
look at how this works.
Wattacity is running on the two hosts,
Qualia and Ploiku.
Four instances are started and
they register with Wotasty so that
Wotasty knows that they're running.
In the meantime,
the adapter has this pre-configured
host list to look at these two hosts.
And what it'll do is it'll send a
request to the two hosts and ask
them for configuration information,
and from that it'll
generate its site config.
What it does is it actually will
merge the XML returned by the various
Wotastis into a complete list.
So let's talk about
multicast really quick.
Multicast is kind of interesting.
What we do is we broadcast a UDP packet,
a request, to a specific IP address
and a TCP/IP port.
We broadcast it to a multicast address.
And what that address does
is it sends it by default to
every machine on your subnet.
You can configure routers
to pass it beyond that,
but in general that's how routers
are configured by default,
to stop the packets at the subnet.
And what happens is all the
WOTASTIs that are running and listening
for that broadcast will respond.
This allows us to dynamically
build a list of hosts.
Once you have the list,
configuration proceeds
exactly like host list did.
And we look,
we do this broadcast about once every
hundred seconds because we don't really
want to be doing this all the time.
So how does multicast work?
Same thing we had before.
We had the two hosts with
Wotacities running on them,
and the WebObjects adapter
preconfigured to look,
or rather to send on
that multicast address.
Applications start and
register with Wotacity.
The WebObjects adapter
will then broadcast,
get the responses from Qualium Ploiku,
and build our dynamic host list.
And finally,
it does what it did in Hostless,
which is to send the request
directly to the known hosts,
get back the reply,
and generate the site config.
So I alluded again to the
WebObjects task daemon,
Wotasty.
Let's talk about this really quick.
Wotasty is a WebObjects daemon
that started at boot time on
Mac OS X and Solaris and at
login time on Windows 2000.
It's watched over by another daemon
process so that if Wotasty dies,
it should be restarted.
And that way, if Wotasty dies,
you don't suddenly lose an entire
host and nobody can connect to it.
And its major job is to
supply the adapter with that
XML dynamic configuration data.
And again,
it does this on port 1085 by default.
To do this, it registers running
instances on the same machine.
The other thing that it's allowed
to do is that it will monitor
and cycle and restart configured
instances on that machine.
So how do we get it to do all this?
Well, Wotasty is configured using an
application called Java Monitor.
Java Monitor is a WebObjects application,
and its major purpose is to provide
a web interface for Wotasty.
You can use it to configure
individual application instances
or entire applications.
You can use it to manage multiple hosts.
You can use it to configure
the WebObjects adapter.
And finally, you can use it to set up
scheduling for instances.
Java Monitor can be password protected,
but is not by default, and it has a new
interface in WebObjects 5.
Before we go on,
I wanted to mention something
about instance scheduling.
The idea behind instance scheduling
is that a scheduled instance is
restarted periodically by Wotasty.
So, after a certain period of time,
what has to be will tell an
instance that it should shut down,
and when it has,
it'll start up a new instance of it.
You want to do this in case you're
expecting to bring them down so that you
can put up a new drop of the instance,
if you have known memory leaks,
anything along those lines.
New in WebObjects 5 is that each
instance can be scheduled independently,
rather than grouping and
scheduling by an application.
So, we have three types of scheduling.
We have hourly, where you can reboot the
application every X number of hours,
two hours, four hours.
Daily,
where an application will get rebooted
every day at a particular time.
And weekly,
where an application will be rebooted
every week at a particular time.
And we can terminate instances
immediately where it'll just exit,
or gracefully where we set something
called refuse new sessions.
And what will happen is that instance
will stop accepting new user requests,
but will continue processing
existing user requests.
Once all of the existing
users are finished,
then it'll exit and start over.
This is nice because you don't
kick users off of their session.
So let's take a look at Java Monitor.
And I'd like to ask Josh Behnke
to come up and do a demo.
So he's not wired with a mic,
so he doesn't joke or
sing or dance either.
All right,
so this is the first screen that
you should be presented with
when you start Java Monitor.
And because we're going
to use it later on,
let's go to the site tab.
And what we're going to do is
set the URL for the adapter.
And we're really doing this--
this doesn't actually choose
which adapter you're using.
You can have one or many adapters,
and you can switch them on the fly
to point to different instances.
But this is what we use to generate URLs.
All right, so let's add the host.
So in this case,
the web server and Java monitor
are running on the same host,
and we'll add this host.
If you can see,
we have three different types of hosts,
Mac OS X, Windows, and Unix.
You can choose the type of
host that that happens to be,
and we'll add it.
One of the things that's
useful for debugging,
for seeing what's going on if you're
having trouble is under Available,
it's now with hyperlink.
So if you click on Yes,
You get a bunch of information
about that particular host.
You have the site configuration
as it's written to disk,
the adapter configuration as it's being
sent back to the adapters by request,
and all the way at the bottom,
you just have some information about
what Wotasty thinks is going on.
So let's add an application.
We're going to add an application,
Hello World.
[Transcript missing]
So we're going to get the
path to the application,
and we'll use the path wizard here.
We select a host, and then we navigate.
It's in Developer, Examples,
Java WebObjects, leave Hello World.
Hello World, WOA.
One thing to note,
there's some confusion in the past,
you have to select the
executable inside of the WOA.
Just selecting the WOA isn't good enough.
All right.
One thing we're going to do
is turn off auto-recover.
Auto-recover is the setting
that says to monitor if this
application instance dies,
restart it automatically.
Don't wait for me to
tell you or anything.
Just start it as soon as you can.
And we're going to turn that
off because we're going to do
something with the demo later.
So let's go to the detail view.
And this is the page where
you'll actually end up doing
most of your monitoring.
We're going to add two instances
to the host that we've just added.
And we'll start them.
So this page by default
refreshes every 60 seconds.
You can either turn that off or you
can set it to a different number
depending on how you want it to go.
and you can start and stop
instances independently as a group.
You can turn on and off auto-recover
independently as a group.
Same thing with refuse new
sessions and you can turn off and
on scheduling from here as well.
Once the application is running,
we show some basic statistics,
number of transactions,
number of active sessions,
some timing statistics.
We also keep track of how many
times the application has died
so that you know when it's died
because if you have auto-recover on,
you may just look at it and be, "Oh,
my application is still there,
but it might have died every
10 minutes for the last hour."
The Woe Stats link is basically
a link to the application's
view of its own statistics.
They're fairly detailed.
Okay, so if we refresh the page,
hopefully the instances
are alive at this point.
And they are.
So the "Hello" at the top is
a link through the web server
adapter to those instances.
[Transcript missing]
So what we're going to do now is we're
going to show you about multicast.
The web server right now
is configured by default.
It only looks at the local host.
All right.
And we can actually prove this.
Josh, if you could go to the
WoW Adapter info page.
Okay,
so this is the WoW Adapter info page,
and what it is is a view into the
state of the adapter at the moment.
We have links to existing
applications as well as information.
And if you see this line,
we're only looking at,
we've only got that one
host that we're looking at.
We also have a bunch of configuration
information about the adapter itself.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to go back and we're
going to add a second host.
And that's our second demo machine.
And then we'll go and we'll
add two instances to that host.
So what will happen at this
point is we've added this host,
but the host that we've added
isn't on the known list of hosts
that the adapter knows about.
And what'll happen is even
though these instances are there,
the adapter won't see them.
And we'll fix that using multicast.
So let's refresh and see.
Okay, so you see that the adapter
really doesn't know about them.
Monitor, if you refresh,
should know about them.
There you go.
So the applications are running,
the adapter doesn't see it.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to stop the web server.
and edit the configuration file.
We're going to change it from
looking at the local host only
to doing a multicast broadcast.
And we'll start the adapter back
up and we'll see what we get.
And there we go.
So all four applications are now showing.
And what you can do at this point is
just keep adding hosts on the subnet.
The adapter will just keep
picking up hosts and picking up
whatever instances happen to be
running on those at the same time.
So one of the things we're going
to do is show-- we're just going to
show shutting down an instance and
watching the adapter pick that up.
So let's shut down instance one.
Give it a few seconds, refresh.
Sometimes the timing's not quite right.
So, that monitor knows that it's
dead and it happened immediately.
We refresh, that means that the adapter
knows about it immediately.
But what happens if an
application crashes,
if an application dies?
So, Josh, can we go to the command line
and kill whatever our most
recent thing happens to be?
So this gives me a chance
to segue into lifebeats.
How does the Wotasty on a particular
machine know that an instance is alive?
Well, the instance sends lifebeats,
TCP/IP lifebeats to Wotasty,
and it tells it, "I'm alive.
I'm still here." It does
it about every 30 seconds.
And what happens is,
when you shut down an instance,
you either terminate it internally
by calling terminate or you
send a shutdown through monitor,
the instance knows it's
going to shut down.
So it sends a special
lifebeat to Wotasty that says,
"I'm shutting down right now."
[Transcript missing]
There's actually something
interesting going on.
If we type in a name, we hit enter,
and you can see that we're
actually on instance three.
We're not on instance two anymore.
So the adapter tries
to be smart about it.
If the instance you've
specifically requested is dead,
you'll move to a different instance.
I believe the XML sessions showed that
if you have a persistent session store,
you can do some really
interesting fallback,
failover mechanisms with that.
So we refresh the monitor page.
Okay,
so monitor has decided that it's dead.
And at this point,
the adapter should be able to pick it up,
and it's also dead.
Okay, so that was just a quick demo of
Monitor and Wotasty and how to do a very,
very basic deployment.
Can we go back to slides?
So the adapter info page is
actually really important.
The adapter info page is accessed
the same way you would normally
access a WebObjects application,
but instead you use the application name,
WoW Adapter Info.
This is really good.
It provides a lot of information about
how the adapter happens to be configured.
You can see which hosts it's looking at,
which instances it knows about,
what the settings for various
timeout options are set to.
It provides links,
direct links for all of
those available instances,
and that's really useful.
If you have an instance started
and you don't know where it is,
that adapter info page will tell you.
It's disabled by default
for security reasons.
We had it enabled during the demo.
You can either password protect it
or you can have it for public access.
During the demo we had
it for public access.
What will happen is, in fact,
any unknown name, application name,
will cause it to come up.
We don't suggest you deploy like that,
but it's useful for development.
The other thing for looking into how the
adapter is working is adapter logging.
You create a file named logWebObjects,
spelled just like that,
in the temp directory of your system.
So, C:\temp, I think, on Windows,
or \temp on Unix systems.
and what will happen is a long file
named WebObjects log will be generated.
Quick warning that
this log is really big.
We dump a lot of information into it.
Logging is slow and so what we do
is we allow you to start and stop it
without restarting the web server.
You can have your web server and
the adapter running and you just
create the file and a few seconds
later we'll start logging to it.
When you delete log WebObjects,
we'll stop logging to it.
So now we're moving on.
We've talked about the adapter
and how it gets its configuration.
We're going to talk about
configuring instances.
So those of you who went to the
Moving to WebObjects 5 session know
that instead of the defaults database,
which we used to have,
we now do configuration using
standard Java util properties.
And very roughly, from our point of view,
we see the properties file from
all your included frameworks,
the properties file from
your application itself,
and then command line arguments
in that order of precedence.
So the properties file
is named properties,
and it's located in the resources
directory of your WOA or your framework.
And it's in pretty standard Java format.
You have multiple lines.
Each line is key equal value.
You can also pass command line arguments,
and those are passed as -d
propertyName = propertyValue.
Again, we also support the old method of
passing arguments to WebObjects,
which is the -wo debugging
enabled space yes or true.
And that works as well,
but is deprecated.
So what are some useful
deployment properties for
configuring an application?
We have WoePort, WoeHost,
WoeDebuggingEnabled, WoeOutputPath,
WoeCachingEnabled, WoeListenQueueSize,
WoeAllowsConcurrentRequestHandling,
WoeWorkerThreadCountMin, and Max.
Some of these are new,
some of these are old.
So WoePort forces the application
to listen on a specific TCP/IP port.
If you don't set it,
it'll just ask the system to choose one,
which is why you typically get,
if you start an application
from the command line,
you get ports that are
like 57,000 something.
WoHost is new,
and you pass it either an IP address
or a host name that has DNS resolution.
And what it'll do is bind that
application to a specific IP,
a specific interface.
This is really useful if you
have a host that happens to
have multiple IP addresses.
You have two Ethernet cards in a machine,
one pointing one direction and
one pointing the other direction,
and you can't figure out why your
application happens to bind to the
wrong one and no one can see it.
This is what you would use.
You would bind to a particular address,
and all the requests
will forward to that one.
If you don't,
we just default to grabbing the
first host name that we find.
This isn't necessarily consistent.
It sort of depends on the Java platform.
There's some support for logging now.
So there's WoE debugging enabled,
and you turn on and off
basic WebObjects logging.
There's also, I think,
EO adapter debug enabled
and some other stuff.
Really, see NSLog for details.
It's best that you can customize this
for your particular application by
enabling or disabling specific debugging
groups and at specific debugging levels.
In any case,
what we provide now is WoE output path.
WoE output path redirects all
of your debugging output from
NSLog to a particular file.
Normally, we dump it all to standard
out and standard error.
This lets you
This lets you set up instances
in Monitor and have the output
redirected to independent files,
rather than having them all mashed into,
well, used to be mashed into the
Wotacity output and now in
Java doesn't go anywhere.
So now we're on to
performance properties.
Woe Caching Enables tells the
WebObjects application whether
or not it should cache the
WebObjects components in memory,
basically the .woe files.
By default, for deployment installs,
it's true,
and it's false for development.
So in development,
you should be able to tweak HTML,
and the next time you hit that page,
it'll show up.
For deployment, for speed reasons,
we don't check every time.
The Listen Queue Size is the number of
outstanding requests at any given time.
So,
your application may end up having a lot
of long-running requests all at once.
And it doesn't have any resources
available to process new requests.
When that happens, things start piling up
in the server socket,
and the WoeListen Queue Size lets
you set how many connections we allow
to sort of wait to get accepted.
What allows concurrent request
handling is a little touchy.
What it does is determine whether or
not requests are processed in serial.
So by default, we will read requests from
sockets and write responses
out to sockets in parallel.
We can have dozens or hundreds
of threads doing that at once.
But all the requests are processed
[Transcript missing]
So the last thing is,
what worker thread count min and
what worker thread count max?
And this is just the number of threads.
What worker thread count is the
number of threads that we use
to process incoming requests.
We start at 16,
we default to grow to 256.
You can allow it to grow infinitely.
For those of you who are
familiar with 4.5 or 4.5.1,
we've changed this a little bit.
The number of threads used to be set.
We try to take advantage of
Java's heavy threading model
and rather than pooling threads,
we simply have a number of them.
Waiting and Accept, which,
if anybody went to the
Java performance session,
works really well.
Alright,
so what are potential bottlenecks
that you should look at when
you're doing a deployment?
The application logic itself
could be a bottleneck.
You could be doing
something amazingly stupid,
sorting a 40,000 element
array using bubble sort.
You could be using the wrong database,
wondering why,
despite the fact that you have
hundreds of connections doing,
you know, dozens of megabytes worth
of transaction processing,
why isn't it working until
somebody points out that you're
using the flat file adapter.
What kind of CPU?
Well, hey, we're running, say,
mybighonkingstore.com on a Celeron.
Sometimes it's not a good idea.
You own a big CPU.
If you can get it, you want more.
Because of the threading,
the heavy threading that we have now,
we'll take as much advantage of
multiple CPUs as you can reasonably get.
Do you have enough memory?
Please, swapping is bad.
I'm sure you've heard this, but really,
swapping is really bad.
Network.
You want a fast network.
In particular, I mean,
you can't really control
the network to your clients,
because that's up to them.
But you can control how big of
a pipe you've got between your
application server and your WebObjects.
You can control how
big your web server is,
and you really want that to be big.
We make a lot of assumptions
that you have an essentially
unlimited pipe between the two,
because you should.
Alright, so if you're interested,
you should see Optimizing
WebObjects Applications.
I think that's coming up on Friday.
And they'll talk about, specifically,
how to look at your application itself.
So let's talk about the systems then.
So how do I tell how much
memory or CPU I'm using?
On Mac OS X, there's the CPU monitor,
there's the process viewer, and VM stat.
VM stat's a command line thing.
It'll tell you basically
how you're paging,
how many pages you've got free,
how many you've swapped out, locality,
that sort of thing.
CPU monitor tells you how
much CPU you're using.
And process viewer lets
you view processes.
So Solera says PS and TOP.
PS is basically a process listing,
and TOP will give you sort of an
overview of how your system is
behaving at the particular time.
Windows has the task manager,
which sort of does a
number of different things.
It's both a process viewer
and a CPU monitor as well.
Network monitoring tools.
Mac OS X has the network utility,
lets you do things like net stat
and ping and that sort of thing.
Solaris has the net stat
directly at the command line,
and Windows has a network monitor
driver for its networking stack.
All of these basically try to let you
see what sockets are open on your system.
Are we leaking?
Are they doing good?
Do we have too many open?
And then you have packet sniffers.
You have them in hardware,
you have them in software,
and they basically let you actually
look at exactly what's going across
the wire between you and clients,
between the app server
and the web server.
And sometimes you find out
really interesting things.
So this is going to be
covered in optimizing,
but I wanted to touch on it really quick.
Application monitoring tools.
We're now in pure Java.
And one of the big,
big advantages of being in pure Java is
that we can now use third-party tools.
You can use JProbe, optimize it.
Optimize it is now available on Mac OS X.
The Java performance team uses it.
And that's really great.
Objective-C sort of had this
problem of looking into the code.
We have any number of profilers,
things that will instrument,
all sorts of stuff now.
You have external load generators.
We ship with Playback Manager and the
playback client and they basically just,
you record a set of actions
and it will play it back.
Silk Performer is a third-party product
that does something very similar.
These are good for determining
your actual real-world performance.
You can say how many requests,
hit your application and see.
It's really good for seeing
specifically what's going on.
How does the application
perform overall rather than at
a very small detailed level.
And finally,
the WebObjects frameworks themselves
provide some sort of feedback.
There's the WoEvent stuff,
which we'll be going over in
detail in Optimizing WebObjects,
and the WoEstats page,
which you can access from Monitor.
And that'll give you statistics
on which components were called,
the average transaction time
for that particular component,
how long did it take, that sort of thing.
So let's take a quick look
at a typical deployment.
And the thing to remember is we're
going to try to show that all the
deployment principles are the same.
It doesn't matter whether you're a small
home-based application going over a DSL,
a mid-sized small business app
going over part of a T1 or ISDN,
or a large enterprise app
going over multiple T1s.
All the deployment
principles are the same.
WebObjects doesn't really
distinguish between them,
and systems monitoring
doesn't really change.
So we start with a
very simple deployment.
You have a small number of applications.
They go to your web server,
Matilda in this case,
and they pass requests to Qualia,
which is talking to a database, Kaby.
So one of the things we start by
doing is adding a little bit of
security so that people don't have
free access to your web server.
We add a firewall and we only allow
requests to Matilda 80 to pass through.
But then the number of clients grows.
And we do some monitoring,
and we discover that it's actually the
web server that's at fault this time.
It's unusual, but it does happen.
So we add a second web server,
and we round robin DNS them,
so that requests get passed
between the various web servers,
and they all talk to the
same set of instances.
We do a little bit more monitoring as the
number of clients grows and we discover,
alright, so our web servers are
holding up pretty well.
Now our bottleneck happens
to be the application.
The application,
we don't have enough instances.
So we add a second instance, or sorry,
two more instances on another host.
And a lot of people will do this.
At this point,
it may be worth it to set up another
firewall so that requests between the
web server and the application instances
also have to pass through a firewall.
And that's also for security.
So finally,
maybe the database all the way at the
end is what your final bottleneck is.
And you may have a mirror database
so that you can get data out faster.
So it's important to note that what
these firewalls that we've set up
as we've grown in this particular
deployment is it separates us.
There's the intranet zone
all the way on one side,
or the internet zone,
and that's totally insecure.
People can do whatever they want.
On the other end,
we have our completely private network,
and this is where all of your value is.
All of your data, all of your logic,
everything important to
you is on the far right.
And we have sort of like a
DMZ border zone in between.
And again,
this is why that split install,
that split of public and
private resources is important.
So that the only things in that
border zone aren't that important.
They're just public stuff,
the things that people
should be able to get anyway.
So that's pretty much an overview
of how WebObjects deployment works.
You can have multiple instances on
potentially multiple application servers,
and you have a WebObjects adapter.
And the WebObjects adapter passes
requests to your instances,
and it can do that in a
number of different ways.
The instances will process and return it.
We have a number of mechanisms
available for you to tweak,
and we provide tools so that
you can deploy and hopefully
have a nice deployment.
And that's it.
Okay.
Thank you.
So the WebObjects lab is still open.
It's open from actually when
this session started to 6 p.m.
today and tomorrow for
some limited hours.
So be warned about the limited hours.
Don't wait until 4 o'clock tomorrow
because it's not going to be open.
We have a roadmap and it may seem a
little strange that we want you to go
to the Java performance even though
that was yesterday but you should
all be getting DVDs this year sooner.
And when you do,
that's certainly something to
look up to because try to take
advantage of the language,
try to take advantage of all the work
that's being done on the Java VMs.
Optimizing WebObjects applications
specifically is tomorrow at 2:00
and then of course if you have
any comments or questions about
deployment or anything else,
please come to the
feedback forum on Friday.
This is,
I'm sure you've seen this slide before.
This is who to contact.
Tony, Bob, iServices, URLs.